Extension model (#307)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/contribution.md

---
id: contribution-model-sap-cloud-sdk-for-javascript-typescript
title: Contribution model
sidebar_label: Contribution model
description:
keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- cloud native
- cloud sdk
- sap cloud sdk
---

## Introduction

> SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript welcomes contributions that bring value to SDK users by simplifying and/or improving cloud application development within the SAP ecosystem. The contributed feature or API library becomes a part of SDK and is released under the SAP Cloud SDK umbrella into `@sap-cloud-sdk` to the [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Reviewer: I am still pretty sure, that this is generally not recognized as a contribution and I think it will cause confusion for people who would like to make actual contributions. Yes, you could use the overarching term of contribution, but this is rather an extension and to make sure there is no confusion, that's what I would call it.
There should be an obvious difference between our contributing guidelines and extension guidelines, because this is a completely different game.

Author: That's all good, @marikaner. What exactly do you want me to do considering I'm indifferent about naming?

Most modules of the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript are Open Source released under Apache 2.0 license. It's preferred, but not mandatory that contribution happens under the same conditions.

## Roles

    - **SDK team** - development team and Product Owner responsible for maintaining, developing, and releasing SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript.
    - **Contribution team** - development team responsible for developing and contributing a feature or an API library

### Stakeholders and contact points

    - **SDK Team** assigns two main stakeholders as contact points for the contribution process.
      - **Product owner**  for organizational topics, priorities, and practicalities
      - **Developer** for engineering onboarding, alignment and consulting
    - **Contribution team** assigns at least one contact point with an engineering background for regular collaboration and syncs.

Other stakeholders and/or contact points could be assigned if deemed necessary.

## Process outline

Below are generic steps for a successful contribution. The process can be adopted for the needs of particular contribution.

    - Initial alignment and approvals
    - Plan contribution collaboration.

>     - Prepare and configure required assets (repositories, configuration, pipelines, etc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Prepare and configure required assets (repositories, configuration, pipelines, etc). The SAP Cloud SDK provides templates for those assets.
```

    - Onboarding session with SDK team. Get to `Hello World!`
    - Start of development by the contribution team
    - SDK Team provides ongoing consulting
    - Regular syncs on development and organizational topics
    - Successful PoC
    - Iterative development process with SDK team contributing to PR reviews
    - Releasing the contribution as `Beta`
    - Iterative development. Stabilizing the API.
    - Release the contribution as GA `General Availability`
    - Keep functional scope up to date with customer requirements
    - Maintenance and support of the contribution by **Contribution Team** or their successors

> ## Coding convention

Reviewer: This paragraph is empty. Remove it? (Or comment it out)

### Contribution programming language

The contribution should happen in Typescript and endorse type-safety whenever possible.

### API alignment

To maintain a consistent API strategy, contribution and SDK teams align on the API. Final approval is on the SDK team.

### Repository

    - The repository is created on Github under SAP Organization by the contribution team
    - SDK and contribution team co-own the repository and have full access rights to it

>     - SDK team provides a repository structure if needed. It's preferable in most cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - SDK team provides a repository structure and initial content as needed. This helps the contribution team to kick-start their pipeline.
```

### README

    - Contribution team maintains `README` on the contribution repository according to development needs

## Releases

### Release process

    - Every library released with SDK should use [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/
    - Breaking API changes have to be avoided.
    - If breaking change is introduced, the old API must be marked deprecated instead of removal. A grace period of 6 months to be observed before removal can be considered.
    - The contribution team has to set on a regular release cycle. SDK uses 2 weeks released cycle and it's preferred regularity.
    - All the new features have to be released as `Beta` first. `General availability` release is triggered when API is stabilized and no breaking changes are planned.
    - If a new module is to be released, its naming has to be aligned with the SDK team
    - Practicalities of releasing NPM module into SDK's namespace are provided by SDK team
    - Release change-log has to be maintained by the contribution team

### License

    - Open-source modules of Cloud SDK for Java are licensed under Apache 2.0
    - The contribution must have the same license applied

>     - Other cases have to be explicitly discussed and approved by the SDK team

Reviewer: We cannot approve this. All SAP Open source products libs are under Apache-2.0 as far as I know. I would not mention it.

---

> id: contribution-model-sap-cloud-sdk-for-javascript-typescript
> title: Contribution model
> sidebar_label: Contribution model
> description:
> keywords:
> - sap
> - cloud
> - sdk
> - cloud native
> - cloud sdk
> - sap cloud sdk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: extension-model-sap-cloud-sdk-for-javascript-typescript
title: Extension model
sidebar_label: Extension model
description:
keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- cloud native
- cloud sdk
- sap cloud sdk
- extension
```

---

## Introduction

> SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript welcomes contributions that bring value to SDK users by simplifying and/or improving cloud application development within the SAP ecosystem. The contributed feature or API library becomes a part of SDK and is released under the SAP Cloud SDK umbrella into `@sap-cloud-sdk` to the [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript welcomes extensions that bring value to SDK users by simplifying and/or improving cloud application development within the SAP ecosystem. The contributed feature or API library becomes an extension of SDK and is released under the SAP Cloud SDK umbrella into the `@sap-cloud-sdk` scope in [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/).
```

> Most modules of the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript are Open Source released under Apache 2.0 license. It's preferred, but not mandatory that contribution happens under the same conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core modules of the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript are released under the Apache 2.0 open source license. SAP Cloud SDK extensions should also be open source with Apache 2.0. If this is not possible, e. g. for legal reasons, licensing has to be clarified in person.
```

### Stakeholders and contact points

    - **SDK Team** assigns two main stakeholders as contact points for the contribution process.
      - **Product owner**  for organizational topics, priorities, and practicalities
      - **Developer** for engineering onboarding, alignment and consulting
    - **Contribution team** assigns at least one contact point with an engineering background for regular collaboration and syncs.

Other stakeholders and/or contact points could be assigned if deemed necessary.

## Process outline

Below are generic steps for a successful contribution. The process can be adopted for the needs of particular contribution.

    - Initial alignment and approvals
    - Plan contribution collaboration.
    - Prepare and configure required assets (repositories, configuration, pipelines, etc). The SAP Cloud SDK provides templates for those assets.
    - Onboarding session with SDK team. Get to `Hello World!`
    - Start of development by the contribution team
    - SDK Team provides ongoing consulting
    - Regular syncs on development and organizational topics
    - Successful PoC
    - Iterative development process with SDK team contributing to PR reviews

>     - Releasing the contribution as `Beta`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Releasing the contribution as "Beta"
```

    - Iterative development. Stabilizing the API.

>     - Release the contribution as GA `General Availability`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Release the contribution with "General Availability" (GA)
```

### API alignment

To maintain a consistent API strategy, contribution and SDK teams align on the API. Final approval is on the SDK team.

### Repository

    - The repository is created on Github under SAP Organization by the contribution team
    - SDK and contribution team co-own the repository and have full access rights to it
    - SDK team provides a repository structure and initial content as needed. This helps the contribution team to kick-start their pipeline.
    - SDK team can audit repository settings and require reasonable updates to the configuration

### Introducing dependencies

    - Dependency audit should happen as a part of PR review
    - SDK provides a guide on dependency choices to the contributing team

### Coding convention

    - Contribution team should use coding convention of the SDK unless it's explicitly approved to be otherwise
    - Most of the coding convention rules should be enforced by automated code checkers and linters like ESLint and Prettier
    - Enforcement happens via continuous integration pipeline
    - SDK team provides guidelines on coding conventions that can't be automatically enforced

>     - SDK team shares documentation on standard patterns chosen by SDK for ... (what patterns do we use?)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### README

    - Contribution team maintains `README` on the contribution repository according to development needs

## Releases

### Release process

    - Every library released with SDK should use [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/
    - Breaking API changes have to be avoided.
    - If breaking change is introduced, the old API must be marked deprecated instead of removal. A grace period of 6 months to be observed before removal can be considered.
    - The contribution team has to set on a regular release cycle. SDK uses 2 weeks released cycle and it's preferred regularity.
    - All the new features have to be released as `Beta` first. `General availability` release is triggered when API is stabilized and no breaking changes are planned.
    - If a new module is to be released, its naming has to be aligned with the SDK team
    - Practicalities of releasing NPM module into SDK's namespace are provided by SDK team
    - Release change-log has to be maintained by the contribution team

### License

    - Open-source modules of Cloud SDK for Java are licensed under Apache 2.0
    - The contribution must have the same license applied

>     - Other cases have to be explicitly discussed and approved by the SDK team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Other cases have to be explicitly discussed
```

---
id: contribution-model-sap-cloud-sdk-for-javascript-typescript
title: Contribution model
sidebar_label: Contribution model
description:
keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- cloud native
- cloud sdk
- sap cloud sdk
---

## Introduction

> SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript welcomes contributions that bring value to SDK users by simplifying and/or improving cloud application development within SAP ecosystem. The contributed feature or API library becomes a part of SDK and is released under SAP Cloud SDK umbrella into `@sap-cloud-sdk` to the [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Reviewer 3: Minor: I would put a few articles like:  `the cloud application development` and `the SAP Cloud SDK umbrella`. But from my experience germans tend to put too many articles and people with an eastern European language background too little.

Author: Good observation, which is indeed true. But I haven't yet run it via grammar checker and one more commit is pending as I'm still editing.

> Most modules of the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript are Open Source released under Apache 2.0 license. It's preferred, but not mandatory that contribution happens under same conditions.

Reviewer 3: I am no expert on this. But if we publish something not under a open source licence I guess this could lead to problems or irritate our user base:
https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#license
I would suggest that contributors must use a licence from this list: https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical.

Reviewer: I think we need to filter this list by Apache-2.0 compatible licenses...

Reviewer 3: Let's ask legal :-)

Author: @marikaner can you take a led on this section?

## Roles

    - **SDK team** - development team and Product Owner responsible for maintaining, developing and releasing SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript.
    - **Contribution team** - development team responsible for developing and contributing a feature or an API library

### Stakeholders and contact points

    - **SDK Team** assigns two main stakeholders as contact points for the contribution process.

>       - **Prodact owner**  for organisational topics, priorities and practicalities

Reviewer 3: typo

Author: There were plenty, now fixed with a grammar checker.

      - **Developer** for engineering onboarding, alignment and consulting
    - **Contribution team** assigns at least one contact point with engineering background for regular collaboration and syncs.

Other stakeholders and/or contact points could be assigned if deemed necessary.

## Process outline

Below are generic steps for a successful contribution. The process can be adopted for the needs of specific contribution.

    - Initial alignment and approvals

>     - Plan conribution collaboration

Reviewer 3: typo

Reviewer 3: I would add a substructure here since it has many points. 
### Phase I - Onboarding
- All initial preparation task

### Phase II - Get a Beta Out
- All development points
- High frequency of syncs
- PR review etc.
- Ends with the beta release

### Phase III stabalizing and GA
- Iterate with lower consulting frequency
- Plan publish
- Customer supports onboarding
- End with G

Author: That would be a fabulous update, but I think the current version is a good start so that I'm not blocked taking it to perfection. Would it be an option to merge it and then everyone can add parts where they have most knowledge or best idea on organizing it?

I can't be the only editor or we'll be stuck in reviews forever.

    - Prepare and configure required assests (repositories, configuration, piplines, etc)
    - Onboarding session with SDK team. Get to `Hello World!`
    - Start of development by contribution team
    - SDK Team provides ongoing consulting
    - Regular syncs on development and organisational topics
    - Successful PoC
    - Iterative development process with SDK team contributing to PR reviews
    - Releasing the contribution as `Beta`
    - Iterative development. Stabilizing the API.

>     - Release the contribution as GA aka `General Availability`

Reviewer 3: If you do not use GA in the rest of the document is the abbreviation needed? Also I prefer the standard way of defining it `Release the contribution as General Availability (GA)`

    - Keep functional scope up to date with customer requirements
    - Maintanance and support of the contribution by **Contribution Team** or their successors

## Responsibilities

### SDK Team

> #### On-boarding

Reviewer 3: Link to the Phase I from above or but these details directly there. As you like

  - Providing repository structure
  - ESlint rules (so that compliant with SDK)
  - Inherit our pipeline (Github actions)
  - Testing framework
  - NPM audit (vulnerability checks)
  - License check tool

### What's on them?

> #### Delivery plan

Reviewer 3: Link to Phase I see above comment

  - What features
  - Oder of feature delivery (so that we can anticipate PR sizes... else?)
  - Basic architecture - some diagram and involved services
  - Modules structure (CC, re-use module artifacts)

- Setting up OS process?
  - Coding and testing the feature?
  - Aligning on release strategy?

> ## Coding convention

Reviewer 3: There is also a sub paragraph ### Coding Convention. Perhaps distinguish the two as this beeing the general header.

Reviewer 3: Also Link this to Phase II. The development process

    - SDK team provides repository structure if needed. It's preferable in most cased.
    - SDK team can audit repository settings and require reasonable updates to configuration

### Introducing dependencies

    - Dependency audit should happen as a part of PR review
    - SDK provides a guide on dependency choices to the contributing team

### Coding convention

    - Contribution team should use coding convention of the SDK unless it's explicitly approved to be otherwise
    - Most of coding convention rules should be enforced by automated code checkers and linters like ESLint and Prettier
    - Enforcement happens via continuous integration pipeline
    - SDK team provides guidelines on coding conventions that can't be automatically enforced
    - SDK team shares documentation on standard patterns chosen by SDK for ... (what patterns do we use?)

### Pull requests

    - Pull request should contain some logical and complet pile of work
    - Pull request should be **small**  for easy review
    - Preferably Pull request should contain tangible incremental value
    - Pull request are mandatorily reviewed by at least one of SDK team members

### Branching strategy

>   - `Main` branch has to be always **release ready**. In other words: up to date, tested, and documented

Reviewer 3: Here I would explain a bit:
- Main branch used for release (Major, Minor and Patches) So no hotfix branches etc.
- Fixes and Feature are included by feature branches which are merged
- Direct pushes to master should be the absolute exception.

> ## Documentation

Reviewer 3: Link this to phase III.

SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript has two types of documentation:

    - Documentation portal
    - Generated API documentation

### Documentation portal

    - After reaching `Beta`, feature or API library has to be documented by contribution team on SDK's documentation portal
    - Documentation has to be kept up to date by contribution team

### Generated API documentation

    - API documentation has to be generated
    - SDK team provides means to generate API documentation on the available code base

### README

    - Contribution team maintains `README` on the contribution repository according to development needs

> ## Releases

Reviewer 3: Link this to phase III.

### Release process

>   - How versioning happens with SDK (semver)

Reviewer 3: This section seems to be a bit unfinshed.

Author: I pushed updates with my latest edits.
